.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/nsmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $"
.\"
.TH NSMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
nsmon \- Nameserver monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B nsmon
is part of the SNIPS network monitoring package, used for
testing the nameserver status 
.RI ( named
) for a list of nameservers.
.PP
The program sends SOA type queries for the domain name listed in the config
file. Each DOMAINNAME keyword starts a new set of hosts to query for the
listed domain.
A response type of authoritative can also be specified using the AUTH
keyword (to set the RES_AAONLY resolver option).
.PP
Other resolver options set in the query are RES_RECURSE off (no recursion),
RES_DNSRCH off (parent, etc not searched).
Note however, that the DNS server may choose to ignore any of these options. 
.PP
The servers are queried every POLLINTERVAL (default 60) seconds.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be queried for the nameserver. A sample config
file is provided with the software.
.\"------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS
The program uses the
.I res_mkquery()
system call for querying the nameserver.
Unfortunately, discrepancies in the data structures exist between vendors, so
slight modifications to the source might be necessary on some systems.
.PP
The nameserver queried can choose to ignore the various flags (like
NORECURSIVE, AAONLY) that the client sets in the query.

