.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/ntpmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $"
.\"
.TH NTPMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
ntpmon \- Network Time Protocol Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ntpmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ntpmon
is part of the SNIPS network monitoring package, used for testing the NTP
stratum of a list of hosts.
The defacto program for running NTP on Unix servers is 
.I xntpd
(from University of Delaware).
.PP
The program reads in a list of devices to query from a config file at startup
and then does a NTP query from the hosts periodically. If the NTP clock
of the remote host is at a stratum higher than the thresholds specified
in the config file, the status is assumed to be down and the severity is
escalaated.
.LP
The query type is Stratum. The servers are queried every POLLINTERVAL 
specified in the config file. Note that the highest possible NTP stratum is 16.
In case a hostname cannot be resolved, the stratum is set to 255 to 
indicate a hostname error.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be queried for the nameserver. A sample config
file is provided with the software.
.\"------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS
The program uses UDP for querying the ntp server.
This may be unreliable if  the network is heavily congested.
Thus the error level may be erroneously be shown as CRITICAL.
