.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/pingmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH PINGMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
pingmon \- SNIPS reachability and round-trip time monitor for hosts and 
network devices (
.BR ip pingmon,
.BR rpc pingmon
& 
.BR osi pingmon)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pingmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.BR ippingmon ,
.BR rpcpingmon ,
.B osipingmon
are SNIPS monitors for testing reachability of remote hosts and network
devices.
.I ippingmon 
and 
.I osipingmon
monitor reachability using ICMP echo requests, and
.I rpcpingmon
tests the status of the portmapper on remote hosts.
.LP
The ICMP monitors use the standard
.I ping
(or
.IR multiping )
program to send ICMP packets to the list of hosts specified in the 
configuration file. For icmp monitors, both round trip time and packet loss
is measured and the severity of the device is escalated if the thresholds
specified in the config file are exceeded.
.LP
The RPC ping monitor just checks to see if the portmapper is responding
(timeout is 15 seconds) and does not measure response time (it uses the
.I rpcping
program).
.LP
The programs do a 
.IR popen (3)
call to the respective ping programs and parse the output to determine the
status of the device. Two support programs are provided \-
.I multiping
and
.I rpcping
for use with the pingmon monitors.
The
.I osiping
program is available with OSI protocol software and usually produces output
similar to the IP ping program.
.LP
The
.BR multiping (8)
program is very useful to test a large number of devices via IP ICMP since
it can take a large amount of time in each pass before a device is tested
again.
It is advisable to use this program instead of the standard Unix ping program.
No such program is available (at this time) for OSI networks.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be queried for the nameserver. A sample config
file is provided with the software.
.\"------------------------------------
The configuration files are expected to be in the ETCDIR and have the name
.B ippingmon-confg
or
.B rpcpingmon-confg
or
.B osipingmon-confg
(depending on the monitor being used\- IP ping, OSI ping or RPC ping).
.LP
Sample config files are provided with the monitors.
.SH CAVEATS
The program relies on external ping programs and expects to parse ping output
in a pre-determined format.
.\"------------------------------------

