.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/portmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH PORTMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
portmon \- SNIPS monitor for TCP ports.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B portmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B portmon
connects to a list of specified TCP ports on specified systems and
checks to see if connections are accepted on the port. It can send
a string and then parse the output against a list of responses. Each
response can be assigned a maximum severity level.
.PP
Upto 64 (or more if compiled within MAXFD limits) devices are tested in
parallel by a single process.
.PP
The program can send an initial connect string with embedded newlines- this
allows testing a POP3 server (as an example) by logging in with username and
password.
The program checks for sub-strings in the responses, and is case in-sensitive.
The first match returns, and the remaining list of responses is not tested.
The
.I send-string 
is optional, and the initial connect response is discarded if this is
present.
The 
.I default-severity
is the severity if none of the responses match or if a connect fails.
The severity is escalated in each pass until they reach the levels
specified in the config file.
.PP
The program also tests response times- if the desired response is not
recieved within the specified time, the severity is escalated.
.PP
A sample config file is provided with the distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be queried for the nameserver. A sample config
file is provided with the software.
.\"------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS
The response strings and match tests are not done using regular expressions.

