.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/radiusmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $"
.\"
.TH RADIUSMON 8 "June 2000"
.SH NAME
radiusmon \- Radius daemon monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radiusmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B radiusmon
is part of the SNIPS network monitoring package, used for
testing a radius server and making sure that it responds
to queries.
.PP
The program reads in a list of devices to query from a config file at startup
and then sends an AUTH radius packet to the remote server.
.PP
If compiled with IGNORE_AUTHCODE, it will assume that any response from
the server (even a deny) indicates that the radius server is OK. Else,
it will see if the response is an okay (i.e. password was valid).
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be queried for the nameserver. A sample config
file is provided with the software.
.\"------------------------------------
.SH CAVEATS
Radius uses UDP, and this program does not do any retrying.

