.\" $Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/snips-perl.3,v 1.0 2001/07/15 03:54:37 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH SNIPSPERL 3 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
SNIPS.pm \- PERL API to SNIPS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I use SNIPS;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B SNIPS.pm
is a perl interface to SNIPS which can be used to write monitors for SNIPS in 
the
.I perl
programming language.
.LP
A number of monitors are provided with the distribution (monitors for Unix
host performance, syslog, SNMP variables, SQL databases, appletalk, novell
routes, etc.).
.LP
The Perl API to SNIPS is described in detail in 
.I SNIPS.pm.
Use
.I pod2text SNIPS.pm
to generate this documentation.
.LP
This library uses the perl XS interface to link directly with the SNIPS C
library (libsnips.a) for high performance and consistency.
.PP
The PERL package is available from
.I www.perl.org
if not with your operating system by this time and age.
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 1)
The \fIrcisco\fR program is used by several monitors to log into cisco
routers and issue commands on the router. The password can be passed on the
command line, but a 'ps' command will display this password on the command
being run. You can put the password in the file itself, and set the mode to
be 700 (owned by the snips user) so that other users cannot read this file
and view the password. Then do not put any password in the various config
files.
.SH AUTHOR
Originally written in 1993 by Jim Wobus, Syracuse University
(jmwobus@mailbox.syr.edu) entirely in perl for NOCOL.
Rewritten in C using perl XS and XSUBS by Vikas Aggarwal (vikas@navya.com)
for SNIPS.

