.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/snips-utility.8,v 1.1 2001/08/01 22:47:54 vikas Exp $"
.\"
.TH SNIPS-UTILITY 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
snips-utility \- Miscellaneous SNIPS utility programs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
There are a number of utility programs for SNIPS. These are described
below:
.TP
.B keepalive_monitors.pl
This is a simple perl script which makes sure that the various snips
monitors are running and if not, restarts them. Edit the script and
configure the various variables like who gets email when a monitor
is restarted, which host should run which monitor, etc.
.TP
.B notifier.pl
This reads the
.I notifier-confg
configuration file. It should be run from crontab every minute or more, and also from 
.I snipslogd
(using snipslog.conf).
It also reads the
.I updates
files maintained by snipsweb to see which devices should be hidden or ignored.
It can page, mail, or run any program that is desired using some simple
modifications.
.TP
.B display_snips_datafile
This program can be used to display a SNIPS format data file which is specified
on the command line. Use the
.I \-a
option to display the data in an alternate output format.
.TP
.B logmaint.pl
This script runs
.logstats.pl and then rotates old log files and compresses them.
them.
.TP
.B logstats.pl
This program generates reports from the log files created by
.IR snipslogd (8).
(it is run from logmaint.pl and need not be run standalone).
For each device, it lists the number of times that the device changed severity,
the average time it was down each time, and the total time it was down and
other similar statistics. The desired severity level can be specified on the
command line (only severity changes above or below the specified level will
be used in the calculations).
.TP
.B eventselect
This utility reads in all the SNIPS datafiles listed on the command line and
prints out all the events that match the
.I sender, devicename, severity, from-time and to-time
indicated on the command line. Multiple  device and sender names can be
specified. The time values can also be specified as incremental values
(seconds from the current time).
.LP
The output of eventselect is text strings in the SNIPS log format. The
program is useful for selecting events and paging or notifying users based on 
the severity, etc.
Optionally, the events can be sent to the snipslogd daemon (in case the
snipslogd daemon starts up later and we need to log existing state of the
events to the logging daemon). e.g.
.RS
eventselect \-s ippingmon \-s portmon \-S gateway.abc \-S fileserver
\-v Error -f 'Jun 2 08:00' -t +3600
.RE
.\"------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Misc contributors (listed in source files)
.fi



