.\" $Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/snipstv.1,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH snipstv 1 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
snipstv \- Curses display agent for the SNIPS systems and network monitoring
software.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snips
[\-d] [\-C] [\-q] [\-w|e] [\-l \fI level\fR] [\-s] [\fIdatadir\fR]
.LP
This program displays SNIPS events on an ascii terminal using 'curses'.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
debug mode.
.TP
.B \-C
On a terminal and system supporting colors, this option disables color mode.
.TP \-q
Quiet mode on startup. However, if a device comes up or down, it will enable
beeping automatically until acknowledged by pressing 
.I q
again.
.TP
.B \-e
Extended screen mode.
.I snipstv
has several display options to accomodate large device names or addresses
that cannot fit on a regular 80 character terminal. Using this option, you
can toggle between the various display modes.
.TP 8
\fB \-l\fR \fIlevel\fR
Minimum severity level that should be displayed on startup.
.nf
	1	Critical events only
	2	Errors and critical events
	3	Warning, errors and critical events
	4	Informational, warning, errors and critical events
.fi
.TP
.B \-s
For \fIsilent\fR mode - the warning bell/beep is permanently turned off when
a new event occurs at the current display level.
This option is only available from the command line.
.TP 10
.I <data directory>
which is an alternate data directory name where SNIPS format data files are
located (else it looks in @DATADIR@).
.LP
The default display severity level is Critical. However, you can set your
shell environment variable
.B SNIPS_SEVERITY
to one of Critical, Error, Warning, Info to set your desired severity
level.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B snipstv
.I (snips text view)
is the display agent for viewing the event data collected by various
monitoring programs in the SNIPS data format.
It uses the popular Unix
.I curses
screen management system and thus supports a wide variety of terminal types.
.PP
All events in SNIPS are classified as
.I CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING
and
.I INFO.
Depending on the user selectable display 
.IR level ,
all events more severe than the selected level are displayed.
Hence if the selected display level is '3 (=WARNING)',
then all CRITICAL, ERROR and WARNING events are displayed on the terminal.
.PP
The screen automatically scrolls if there are more than a screenful of events
to be displayed. If a new device comes up or goes down at the current level,
the terminal starts beeping (if the terminal type supports it).
.PP
A portion of the screen is used for displaying text messages (the 
.I MESSAGES
window). All files in a specific 
.I MSGS
directory (set during compile time) are displayed line by line sequentially.
This can give information about scheduled downtimes,  past logs, debug
messages, etc.

Additional capabilities include:
.IP -
freezing the screen so that the next screenful is displayed only when 
the user enters a key on the terminal
.IP -
filtering out the devices to be displayed by putting a filter which tests
against the lines to be displayed
.IP -
alternate display formats.
.\" ---------------------------
.SH DISPLAY FIELDS
The various fields that are displayed in \fBsnipstv\fR are:
.IP Device name
which is the name of the system that is being monitored.
.IP Address
This is the network address (IP, OSI NSAP) or any other resource
for the entity being monitored.
.IP Rating
this is a string of 0's or 1' indicating the status of the last 4 (or 6) polls 
for the device. The most 
.I recent
poll status is the 
.I leftmost 
digit and is 1 if the device status was UP, and 0 if the device status was
DOWN.
.IP Date/Time
the time stamp for the event. Note that some (most) monitors set this to the
time when the device was \fIinitially\fR detected in the current state 
.RI ( e.g.
when a device was first detected unreachable via
.IR ping ).
.IP Sender
is the name of the monitoring program
.RI ( "ippingmon, nsmon, tsmon"
) that recorded this event.
.IP Variable
is the name of the variable that is being monitored. Further information
regarding the type of variable and its properties can be found in the
descriptions of the respective 
.IR Sender .
Typical names are
.I reachability, thruput, named-status.
.IP Value
It is a unsigned long integer indicating the value of the variable being
monitored.
.IP Threshold
The threshold value of the variable due to which the event is in the present
state/level. This can be a less-than or a greater-than threshold type,
depending on the monitor.
.IP Units
it is the units for the value being displayed.
.IP Flags
This is an integer used internally by the various agents. Each bit signifies
one of the following flags for that particular device:
.in +.5i
.DS
0x01	Device UP
.br
0x02	Device DOWN
.br
0x04	Status UNKNOWN
.br
0x08	Device in TEST mode
.DE
.in -.5i
.IP Condition
is the last known condition of the variable and is listed as one of
.I critical, error, warning 
or
.I informational.

.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH RUN TIME OPTIONS
.LP
.I snipstv
allows certain options to be entered at the prompt while running the
program. A carriage return is not necessary after entering an option,
and the keystrokes are not echoed. Thus, to change the display level,
the user simply presses a 
.I 'l'
on the keyboard followed by a number representing the display level.

The following options can be entered at the prompt while running 
.BR snipstv \-
.TP
.B h
for help
.TP
.B b
to turn the bell off once a critical event is acknowledged.
.TP
.B c
Condense the number of lines in the 
.I event
window, and correspondingly increase the size of the 
.I messages
window.
.TP
.B d
for toggling debug mode. Debug messages are displayed in the MESSAGES
sub-window of the snipstv display.
.TP
.B e
for toggling between extended (132 column) and short (80 column) display modes.
.TP
.B f
For toggling \fIfreezing\fR the screen. Once this option is set, the screen
will not scroll until the user enters a key on the keyboard.
.TP
.B l
.I <level>
for selecting a display level. Here the 
.I level
is any number between 1 and 4 (where 
.RI 1= "Critical, "
.RI 2= "Error, "
.RI 3= "Warning, "
.RI 4= "Info "
). Alternatively, the characters
.I C, E, W, I
can also be used.
.TP
.B r
to redraw/refresh a messed up screen.
.TP
.B "s /"
to put a search filter on the lines being displayed. Only lines that match
the filter specified will be displayed. The filter can have multiple words
separated by
.B '|'
or
.B '&'
for matching either or all of the words. The current display mode
(80 column or 132 column expanded) is taken into consideration when matching
the pattern.
.br
Thus, a filter such as:
.in +.5i
.DS
AWORD | BWORD | CWORD & DWORD | EWORD
.DE
.in -.5i
will search for lines that have \fIeither\fR
.RS
.IP -
AWORD or
.IP -
BWORD or
.IP -
CWORD and DWORD (both)
.IP -
EWORD
.RE
.IP
in the display lines.
.TP
.B x
To \fIexpand\fR the number of lines in the \fIevent\fR window.
.TP
.B q
to quit from the program.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Vikas Aggarwal, vikas@navya.com.

