.\" $Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/snipslogd.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH SNIPSLOGD 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
snipslogd \- SNIPS event logging daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snipslogd
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-e
.I output-error-filename
] [
.B \-f
.I config-filename
]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
For debug mode. Will not daemonize and writes errrors to terminal.
.TP
.B \-e 
.I <errorfile>
For writing out errors to. Default is \fI ETCDIR/snipslogd.errors\fR
.TP
.B \-f 
.I <config filename>
Location of the configuration file. Default is \fI ETCDIR/snipslogd.cf\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.I snipslogd
daemon logs SNIPS events (as text lines) to the files specified in the config
file based on the loglevel of the event and the file specified in the config
file (similar to the Unix \fIsyslogd\fR program.
Alternately, it can open a pipe to a process and run that process instead of
writing to a file.
.PP
It only logs
.I CHANGES
in severity levels of the events- it is important to note that it does not
log in each pass of the monitor since this information is redundant. A log
entry is made the first time a device goes from 'Info' to 'Warning' mode, and
from 'Warning' to any other mode, but it is unnecessary to log an entry in
each pass.
.PP
The
.B snipslogd
daemon listens on a UDP port (5354) for the various snips monitors to send
it EVENT structures.
Sending a HUP signal to the server closes all streams currently open, and
reopens them. This is useful if you move the old log files every night
or so.
.PP
For security purposes, only the hosts (IP addresses) specified in the
configuration file are allowed to send log messages (see CAVEATS below).
.PP
.B NOTE:
Since an
.I event
in SNIPS is generally generated only when the severity of an event
.IR changes ,
you might not see any events logged until such a change in severity occurs
(restarting a SNIPS monitor will generate log messages- useful for testing).
You can test logging by the
.B snipslogtest
program provided with the source distribution.
.\"
.SH DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
.LP
The following are important 'features' about
.B snipslogd
that should be kept in mind while logging and running programs through it:
.RS
.TP 3
1.
Security is implemented by allowing only a select list of IP addresses
to log (specified in the configuration file). The IP address of the
host sending the packets is verified using the 
.IR recvfrom (2)
system call. Also see CAVEATS below.
.TP 3
2.
Since the sockets used are of the UDP type, datagrams can be lost if
too many events are sent to the daemon at the same time. However, since
the monitors only log an event when its severity changes, this is usually not
a problem. Additionally, a small delay is inserted by
.I eventlog()
(used by the clients) after sending a batch of log messages to avoid
overflowing the daemon with too many messages.
.TP 3
3.
The daemon does not
.I fork(2)
off a child for each packet that comes in. It processes each event 
itself. Thus,if you are piping the output to a program 
(instead of logging to a file), then make sure that the program being 
run does its main procesing in the background and returns control to
the snipslogd daemon as soon as possible.
.I i.e.
the various output programs being executed are responsible for doing
their own "fork-ing", the daemon will not do it for them, and might
loose other incoming log packets if the piped process does not release the
.I stdin
(it uses the
.IR popen (3)
call).
.TP 3
4.
The hostname on which the 
.I snipslogd
daemon runs, is read from the global config file -
.I snips.conf
which is located in /etc/ or under SNIPSHOME/etc/
.TP 3
5.
The library subroutine
.I eventlog()
does not retry logging for RETRY_REOPEN seconds (set to 60 secs) if it
fails to log to snipslogd.
.RE
.PP
A sample config file is provided with the distribution.
.\"

##
## Give full pathnames in filenames since the daemon changes dir.
##
## SENDER	LEVEL		LOGFILE or PIPEFILE
##
*		critical	/snips/logs/log-critical
nsmon		error		/snips/logs/log-error
test		warning		/snips/logs/log-warning
*		info		/snips/logs/log-info
#
pingmon		critical	|/snips/bin/beeper
.fi
.RE
Comments begin with a '#' and sender names can be specified as '*' to
indicate a wildcard. Keep in mind that an event is logged to all streams
with a severity lower than its severity/loglevel. Thus, in the above example,
events with a loglevel of ERROR will be logged to all the 3 files
.I log-info, log-warning & log-error.
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
Logging is restricted to the hosts listed in the configuration file.
However, any user can send log messages from a permitted host, since there 
is no authentication using passwords, etc (similar to
.IR syslogd ).
