.\" $Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/tksnips.1,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH tksnips 1 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
tksnips \- Tcl/Tk based gui interface to view SNIPS events.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tkSnips
[\-a] [\-b] [\-s] [\-x] 
[\-dn | \-do | \-da]
[\-li | \-lw | \-le | \-lc]
[snips hostname]
.LP
Display SNIPS events using a Tcl/Tk based windows interface.
This program needs
.B tixwish
in order to run.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
autosize window to display all events on a single page.
.TP
.B \-b
Enable beep on change of status.
.TP \-s
Enable small font mode.
.TP
.B \-x
Extended screen mode.
.TP
.BI \-d X
where X is one of
.B n
to never display change window,
.B o
to only display the change window when iconified,
.B a
to always display the change window.
.TP
.BI \-l X
sets the display level, where X is one of
.B i
to display Info and up,
.B w
to display Warning level events and up,
.B e
for Error level, and
.B c
for Critical level.
.TP 10
.I <snips hostname>
is the name or IP address of the host running the
.I ndaemon 
socket server.
.\" --------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B tKsnips
is a Tcl/Tk based display agent for SNIPS events. It connects to the SNIPS
host running the
.I ndaemon
process and displays the events returned by ndaemon.
.LP
It is an alternate to using snipstv or snipsweb.
.SH SERVER PROCESS (ndaemon)
The ndaemon process must be started on the SNIPS host in order to permit the
tKsnips clients to connect to it.
.SH CAVEATS
There is no security built into the
.B ndaemon
process (which listens on port 5005), so anyone can connect to this daemon
and list the status of all monitored devices.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Lydia Leong (lwl@godlike.com)
.fi
