.\"$Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/tpmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $"
.\"
.TH TPMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
tpmon \- TCP/IP network throughput measuring program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tpmon
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-o
.I output-file
] [
.I config-file
] [
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B tpmon
is part of the SNIPS network monitoring package, used for
measuring the throughput (bits per second) to a remote networked host.
.PP
The program reads in the list of devices to test from a config file at startup
and then tests the throughput by dumping data to the 
.I discard
port (TCP port 9) on the remote hosts. It keeps track of the amount of data
sent and the time to send it, and calculates the throughput in bits
per second.  If the measured throughput drops below the set threshold value
(in the configuration file), then the
.I severity
for that device is incremented. However, the severity is not incremented beyond
WARNING (this is because the intent of the program is more towards providing
information than realtime monitoring. Furthermore, the thruput is a function
of the network load, system load, etc. and can only be considered a rough
estimate).
.PP
The program sleeps for POLLINTERVAL seconds between each run through the
list of hosts. This should be set to about 2 hours or more (7200) to avoid
loading the system and the network.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.B \-a
autoreload the configuration file if it is updated since last reload and if
it is at least 1 minute old.
.TP
.B \-d
selects verbose debugging output mode. Specify multiple times to increase the
debug level.
.TP
.BI "\-o" " output file"
Name of the file to which to write the output.  This file is 
.I not
in human-readable format, and is intended to be processed by the 
.BR snipstv (1)
display program.
.TP
.B \-x
extension that is added to the program name to create the config file name
and output file name.
.TP
.I config-file
This file lists the hosts to be tested for throughput and the threshold
levels. A sample config file is provided in the distribution.
.\"------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
S. Spencer Sun 1992 (spencer@phoenix.princeton.edu).
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 1)
The measured throughput is a function of the network load, the end system
load and the intermediate hops. Hence, it can only be used as a rough
estimate.
.TP 2)
The program should
.I not
be used for connecting to routers because of the additional CPU load on the
router. Furthermore, the router might give lower priority to discard port
connections. 
.\"------------------------------------
