.\" $Header: /home/cvsroot/snips/man/trapmon.8,v 1.0 2001/07/08 22:31:48 vikas Exp $
.\"
.TH TRAPMON 8 "June 2001"
.SH NAME
trapmon \- display SNMP traps in SNIPS format.
.SH USAGE
.B trapmon [\-d] [\-P] [\-S] [\-p \fIport\fR] [\s]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Debug mode, and dump each SNMP trap.
.TP
.B \-P
Print a summary of each trap to stdout.
.TP
.B \-S
Log a one-line summary to
.BR syslogd (8)
using the same format as the \-P switch.
.TP 8
.B \-p
.I port
Use the specified port number to listen for SNMP traps instead of the default 
port 162.
.TP
.B \-s
SNIPS mode- convert traps to SNIPS format events and write to a snips datafile.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B trapmon
was developed specifically for use with the
.BR SNIPS
network monitoring system- the
.I \-s
switch enables reporting designed for processing by \fI SNIPS\fR.
.PP
.B trapmon
processes traps asynchronously using
.BR select (2).
As each trap is received, it is written to the SNIPS datafile (or to stdout
depending on the mode). An EVENT structure is appended to the output datafile 
for each trap recieved, and then deleted after TIME_TO_LIVE minutes
(typically 30 minutes).
This timeout feature ensures that trap datafile does not grow without bounds.
.LP
Each trap type is pre-assigned a severity level (these are listed in
the
.I trapmon.h
include file)\- thus a
.I Link Down
trap will be assigned a SNIPS severity level of ERROR while a
.I Cold Start
trap will be assigned a severity level of WARNING.
.LP
.B trapmon
binds to the SNMP port, so it must be executed by the superuser.
.LP
For facilitating 
.I enterprise
specific traps, trapmon appends the value in the 
.I specific_type
field of the trap packet to the word 'Enterprise' in the 
.I variable 
field of the EVENT structure for SNIPS.
.SH CAVEATS
.TP 1)
trapmon needs to run as superuesr since it listens on a priveleged port (162) 
for incoming traps.
.TP 2)
If the output file for
.B trapmon
is on an NFS mounted filesystem, then the process will not be able to create
the output file unless it is in a world-writable directory. This is because
NFS will not honor superuser privileges on the NFS filesystem.
\fI Thus, the output file must exist on the local machine and not on an NFS
mounted partition.\fR
.TP 3)
The severity level of each trap is defined during compile time in the
.I trapmon.h
include file. To change the severity level, the program has to be recompiled.
.RS
.ta \w'#define'u +\w'fsid_t\0\0'u +\w'f_spare[7]\0\0'u
.sp .5
.nf
   "Cold_Start" 	E_WARNING
   "Warm_Start"		E_WARNING
   "Link_Down"		E_ERROR
   "Link_Up"		E_ERROR
   "Auth_Failure"	E_WARNING
   "EGP_Peer_Loss"	E_CRITICAL
   "Enterprise"		E_WARNING
   "Unknown_Type"	E_WARNING
.fi
.RE
.LP
The 
.I enterprise
specific traps are not converted into text- only the number representing the
.I specific_type
(from the RFC trap PDU specification) is displayed.
.SH AUTHOR
Modified from CMU-SNMP's snmptrapd by vikas@navya.com
